# RL-with-LLM-feedback

This repo contains scripts that aim to improve reinforcement learning (RL) by giving the agent extra artificial guidance rewards generated by an LLM. These rewards are not meant to replace real environment reward, but to supplement it to shape learning and accelerate convergence.

This project currently uses the following packages:
- Environments and RL API: [gymansium](https://gymnasium.farama.org/).
- RL algorithms: [CleanRL](https://github.com/vwxyzjn/cleanrl)
- OpenAI API. 

Currently, there's only implementation of DQN with the [Taxi-v3](https://gymnasium.farama.org/environments/toy_text/taxi/) environment.


# Shaping Rewards

## Definition

Currently, I'm following [Ng et al. (1999)](https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~pabbeel/cs287-fa09/readings/NgHaradaRussell-shaping-ICML1999.pdf) potential-based reward shaping. 

Basically, the shaping reward = ABSOLUTE progress towards the final goal, given ONLY the current state and next state. They proved that this way you speed up training, but **optimal policies** remain the same.

The authors argued that shaping should NOT reflect preference of actions, because by doing so we would be **changing the task** (different objective than environment). 


## Querying LLM for shaping rewards during episode

The one I'm currently testing. It's really slow, as expected.

The training loop queries the LLM every 50 steps for a shaping reward, which is incredibly slow. 

## Query LLM only once to provide a shaping reward function definition

Next step is to experiment with this. Ask the LLM before starting the training to provide a shaping reward function definition, then use that function to compute shaping rewards every step (or fewer if we want to) without incurring any extra latency. 




